from hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three Oh two
recorded live Wednesday, January 11th, 2012. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by teller regard. Ady controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
John skeet. I'm here with
John skeet. You work at
Google. Yes, I do. I
do. Which is a fabulous
place to work, but I
don't speak on behalf of
them. So this is pretty,
pretty much all we'll say
about Google, I think. Okay.
It's a brilliant place to
work, but you made it
through the interview process. Yes.
Yes. And we do have
a difficult interview process because
we want the best of
the best as I'm sure
Microsoft does as well. And
every one of my colleagues,
including myself, we all feel
we are the one person
to get through this. I
wouldn't say a nasty interview
process. It's a lot of
fun, even if you don't
get through, it's a lot
of fun, but it's, it's
tricky. And we all feel
that we managed to squeak
through and fool our friends
now, friends and our interviewers
at the time. And to
thinking that we had some
special powers that we didn't
feel that we've got ourselves.
So sincerely without false humility,
you and your peers at
the big multinational company that
dare not speak its name,
honestly, think that like you
could be found out. Yeah,
I think by now, so
I've been there nearly four
years and I sorta think
I can now fit in
properly so that I know
how I can make my
way and contribute, but equally
I can look at all
my peers and think, wow,
you guys are smart. And
everyone that is smart in
some different way. And they're
all really, really nice guys
as well. How did I
get here basically? Are there
people who are there that
you don't know why they're
still there? Like how did
this guy make it to
the project? If I made
it through the process, how
did this guy make it
to depression? Let's say, I
can't think of anyone offhand.
So you, you honestly stack
rank yourself, like on the
left side of the bell
curve, within my colleagues, your
colleagues. Yeah. So lower average.
Yeah, I think so. And
certainly is there, there are
certainly people who achieve much
more while they're there. I
have, I regard myself as
having a fairly healthy work
life balance. So I don't
push myself. I work hard
for the company, but I
don't kill myself for the
company. And there are some
people who will just achieve
monumental things and you, you
see what they're doing in
their normal day to day
job and you think, and
then you're managing to do
other things outside the normal
projects. How do you find
the time? It's crazy. And
is it based just entirely
on they're working harder than
you are? Or are they
working more hours? It's finding
the right things to work
on and finding the right
people to work with and
being smarter. I'm absolutely sure
of it. I'm not saying
that I'm sort of the
least smart person there, but
I'm far, far from the
smartest by miles. So let's,
let's set a little context
and explain to people who
might not know who you
are. Cause I was at,
we were at dinner yesterday
and I switched tables at
the end of the dinner
to talk to some friends.
And then I, you were
leaving and I said, Hey,
it's John skating in a
wave and you waved. And,
and then you left. And
the guys at the table,
the four that I was
sitting with at, you saw
said, who's that? And I
just said, it's John ski.
He's got his own search
engine. I mean, he's got
like, you know, he's the
number one guy on stack
overflow. And I told him
some of the John skied
questions and the style of
Chuck Norris helped to build
the legend and you know
what they said? They said,
wow. He seems like a
really nice guy. Oh, that's
honestly what they said. They
said, Oh, I really, and
then, then the discussion turned
into, I really like it
when amazing people that are
super smart are very, very
nice. Right. And then I
said, I don't know if
he thinks he's that smart.
We'll have to ask him
Well, so it is the
amazing people who are super
smart. That just gets me
new. It's it's all an
impression. And I think we
were saying this yesterday, that
if you can explain things,
even relatively simple things, if
you can cotton onto ideas
and persuade people of them
in a, maybe a different
style, just some way that
they haven't heard before, then
people will think you're much
smarter than you really are.
So I feel like I'm
constantly bluffing on stack overflow.
It's not that I think
my answers are wrong. They're
fine. I'm, I'm proud of
what I do on stack
overflow. Don't get me wrong,
but I don't think it's
actually a measure of smartness.
I think it's a measure
of being able to find
the resources. So I'm good
at using search engines. I'm
good at finding things in
the C sharp spec. And
I read the C chops
back, you know, there's nothing,
you don't have to be
a genius to read a
specification. I know the spec
better than some other people,
but anyone can look things
up and I can somehow
explain things a bit. And
that's really all there is
to it. And that's not,
that's not a cause of
genius or anything. It's, it's
useful. It's really handy as
a skill. And I don't
know where I particularly got
it from. And I don't
think I would rate it
as highly as many other
people who have a real
gift for just putting, do
you know when, when someone
explains something, you think that
is so clear, it's like
crystal clarity that no one's
ever achieved on that topic
in my hearing before. Yeah.
And that will happen sometimes.
I'm not nearly there, but
I'm just above where many
other people are. I think
actually that in itself is
a line where people use
the term expert pretty readily
these days. So if you
say to someone what's in
a.net string and they say,
well, it's a sequence of
UTF 16 code units, then
that's actually correct. And Sony,
they sound like you're an
expert on Unicode. Yeah. I
may know a little bit
more than someone else. And
that's all it takes. If
you can see that someone
knows more than you is
very hard to work out
how much more they know
than you, because you don't
know what you don't know.
If you see what I
mean. It's like Donald Rumsfeld's
unknown unknowns. I think his,
his quote was unfortunately bashed
for, he said something that
did actually make sense there.
So if you can't really
tell how much more someone
knows than you do, it's
very easy to just jump
to the assumption that they
know huge amounts. And they're
a genius. No, they knew
something more than you. My
wife is going back to
school, which is funny, cause
she has an MBA, but
she wants to go back
to school and become a
nurse. So she is brushing
up on some math, right.
So we go up to
the Khan Academy and we
do the algebra two kind
of mid level, you know,
graphs and stuff. And they
started busting out a couple
of things like, you know,
to, to the square root
of something. And then you
have to figure out what
you have to remember. Like,
what do you do with
the two, right? Is it
like the times, or did
you put it up there?
You have all those little
rules about like, you know,
log this and that the
exponent goes there and it
was all just, you know,
moving numbers around. And in
my mind, I remember that
there was a thing where
you, you know, to do
something and I just could
not pull it out. No,
but I've talked to people
that work just in everyday
discussions and something like that
will come up and there
are people my age and
they just seem to have
that stuff just ready to
yeah. Right there. And I
then silently feel stupid, I
think to myself because I
don't remember the quadratic equation.
Right. I just don't I
know it's like two plus
or minus something as a
square root. And then over
four AC, I don't know
what it is. Yeah. Do
you know it Plus or
minus four ACO? No, I
can't over two eight. I
can't remember you and I
are idiots. Yeah. I've got
a math degree, so that's
sort of the worse. But
see then that just makes
me feel like I should've,
I should've gone to MIT.
You know, I went, I
visited, I didn't feel comfortable.
I went to a community
college instead. I wasn't emotionally
ready to go to MIT.
It was one of the
smartest guys I work with
all of that. I generally
have breakfast with. He always,
he feels there. How did
he squeak by? Because he
doesn't have a degree at
all at all. I think,
forgive me, Greg, if that's
wrong, but he blows me
away. He will be talking
about any topic pretty much
that he's willing to talk
about. He will have considered
opinions, ones that I may
disagree with or not, but
he will have considered opinions
and reasons behind them. And
he's just one of those
people that you just suck
up their energy that just
comes all the time. And
he's so smart. The whole
time Someone told me a
story. I don't know. It's
always fun to have like,
you know, mid-thought mythological stories
of people who aren't here,
but you know, everyone knows
that Scott goo knows a
lot about everything, the web
and everything. Someone said that
they were in like England
or somewhere with Scott Fu
and in a casual after
the conference kind of an
affair. And they were standing
in front of like a
castle or some old pile
of rocks. And he just
started reciting like chapter and
verse about what happened in
like 16, 15, and this
spot in like this random
place, you know? And again,
I don't know if this
is exactly true or whatever,
but they were like, how
do you know that? It's
like, Oh, it's, you know,
that's 16th century English history
is one of my hobbies
or whatever. You know, I,
I, I almost did my
PhD dissertation in it or
something like that, you know?
And you just go, wow,
really? And you're well-rounded and
then you find out, of
course, that they're on a
rowing team and then not
only smart and funny, you
know, Absolutely hate them. Oh,
they're awful if they weren't
so incredibly nice as well.
Oh, it's the word. There
is no way anyone could
hate Scott group would be
impossible. Does He doesn't seem
to have any sense of
imposter, imposter theory and the
imposter. What's this? What is
this? That, that sense? Like
phony Einstein had imposter syndrome.
He thought he wasn't smart
enough. Cause all his life
he was told he wasn't
smart enough. Right. Does that
drive us forward though? I
mean, do we all have
this secret shame? I think
it depends on how you
treat it. So some people
will be driven by feeling
themselves not smart enough. So
I will be driven to
find out more about everything
and improve myself and other
people that will crush them.
So I think it should
be something that you do
to yourself if it's useful
rather than other people doing
it to you. But I
think it's healthy to have
a healthy disrespect for yourself.
I like a healthy disrespect
for yourself. Someone told me
though, that having an overdeveloped
sense of an imposter syndrome,
a sense of you are
a phony. It can be
a sign of depression. Ah,
possibly. I, I don't know
anything about psychology and friends.
I'm not depressed. I thoroughly
enjoy my life. Yeah. I
go through, I go through
it with people coming up
to me and say, wow,
love what you're doing on
whatever. You're amazing. I'm thinking
I'm not, but it's so
nice of you to say
so how could I be
depressed when yeah. The one
that I feel a phony,
but equally it means everyone's
really nice to me. Yeah.
The one that I get
a lot is how do
you get so much done?
Right. Just doing stuff. Like
what are you doing? One
really nice guy came up
to me and he said,
I'm a single guy. I
have no kids. I have
no hobbies. And I don't,
I don't, you know, I'm
barely able to get the
stuff done that I want
to get done. How do
you get done? And you've
got kids and it's like,
I don't know, man. I
mean, yeah, what are you
doing all the time? Let's
break it down hour by
hour. What are you doing?
Absolutely. And I feel I
don't get stuff done. So
I'm looking at, you know,
I've got my new to
time project, open source project
for a new date and
time API that has been
sitting, not in a V
one for over two years
now. So I'm not getting
it done. There's two books
on C sharp. I want
to be writing at the
moment, but I haven't found
the time to actually get
around to it yet. There's
another book that I'm meant
to be editing and I'm
not finding the time. So
they see that I'm always
answering stack overflow questions, which
stops me from getting other
stuff done. Of course. And
that's just, I'm a terrible
procrastinator. If I don't have
to do something right now,
I probably will leave it
until tomorrow. So I don't
get nearly as much stuff
done as some people seem
to think. And I'm sure
if, if each person took
a look at what they
were actually getting done, there
wouldn't be this huge gap
that people seem to imagine
someone said that, But you
know, like half of success
is just showing up. Absolutely.
And I think that like
the reason that some people
are like, Oh, I love
your podcast. I feel okay
about the podcast. I think
we've, we've caught our stride.
Right? There's a couple of
shows that don't go quite
the way I want, whether
it be, I didn't research
the topic enough or the
audio quality isn't good enough,
but for the most part
it's okay. But honestly, the
weeds and I think the
show does okay. Is because
it's consistent. Right. And I've
been doing 300 shows every
day. Know I haven't missed
a week in five years,
Phil, for everyone else who's
trying to blog or whatever,
seeing that kind of consistency.
So I, But it could
be consistently bad though. It's
just consistent though. Okay. But
if it were consistently bad,
you would improve true. And
the fact that you can
see now, well, there are
some shows that maybe I
didn't do enough research or
the audit quality. You can
see things that you can
improve. So over time, even
if you don't know how
you're improving things, those will
improve. So I'll give you
an example. In my first
sort of six months of
working at Google, I wasn't
very good at making cappuccino.
I couldn't froth the milk
well, so I nearly set
it as one of my
okay. Ours objectives and key
results that I would learn
how to froth milk properly.
And I didn't actually do
that, but I gradually got
better and I couldn't even
pinpoint how I got better
and more significantly. I not
sure that I could really
teach someone else now how
to do not nothing, but
now I can, I can
do a pretty good cappuccino.
Yeah. You, if you, if
someone comes to London, come
visit me. I will make
you a cappuccino. You will
not complain. It's good. But
it is. I had to
drink many, many cups of
coffee. It was so hard
just showing up and having
another cup of coffee I
would get in in the
morning. Oh, alright. I'll have
another coffee. I will eventually
get at the milk. Yeah.
Okay. I love coffee, but
it is that consistency of
keeping, trying it again. And
again makes such a difference.
You kept showing up. I
did, without knowing, assuming I
would improve without knowing what
I would be doing to
improve. So there's, there's conscious
focused. I'm going to lose
weight. I'm going to learn
to do this. I'm going
to improve this thing. And
then there's simply the showing
up, like with stack overflow,
you just, you, you, you,
that's something you do every
day. You brush your teeth,
you do your stack overflow
Pretty much usually the other
order. Okay. But what if
you didn't do it for
a week or two weeks?
Have you ever fallen off
the wagon? So I have
occasionally not done it. If
I'm on holiday, sometimes I
will post. Sometimes I rent.
So I went to Florence
last year and the, the
hotel room had wifi connection
and a laptop in the
hotel room. So yes, sometimes
when, you know, Holly was
having a nap or whatever,
I would go and start
over float, but I've never,
I've never felt like right.
I'm going to take a
week off. Cause it doesn't
feel like something that, that
you take a week off
just because it doesn't feel
like a job. It's something
I do for fun. And
it is a pleasure to
do. And I always feel
that the fact that I
found something that is a
pleasure to do that hopefully
does help people. I am
so lucky. If, if everyone
in the world can find
something that they love doing
that helps people. Wow. That's
a huge force. If you
look at someone did a
study once on how many
hours it took to produce
all the content on Wikipedia.
And then they took a
look at how many TV
hours Americans watched every day
or something. And we could
be doing so many Wikipedia
style projects, Wikipedia scale projects
every day. If people can
find something that is fun
and useful at the same
time. So that's where Jeff
and Joel and all the
rest have really done wonders.
And it's not, it's the
whole package. It's not that
they've got a bad system.
It's not that they've got
a rep system. It's that
the whole thing hangs together
into something that is fun.
And the competitive parts is,
yeah, it's fun. That's definitely
a part of it, but
it's not so that you
can say I'm the best
it's because it just makes
it a little bit more
enjoyable. And I think that's
an amazing thing. How, how
close is number two from
you? I think at the
moment Mark Ravel is number
two. I think he's about
120,000 behind. And I think
Darren Dimitrov is about we're
in, I don't know, about
140,000 behind, but Darren's catching
up with Mark. So who
knows? And for the few
people who may be listening,
who may not be familiar
with stack overflow, it's effectively
the intersection of a blog,
a Wiki and a forum.
It's a community based massively
multiplayer questions and answer site.
I sort of, I think
of it as used net
V2 in some ways, but
very much focused on being
Q and a. So it's
not a social network, although
there's a community around it.
So people know names and
things, but it's not somewhere
that you have a social
network where you reach out
to people so much. There's,
there's, chat-bots, there's matter all
kinds of things that are
around social, but it's deliberately
not a social network. Right.
But yeah, it's questions and
answers questions, And you are
given points for every action
You are given points. Well,
ha this is where I
get bitter because you are
given points by your peers
mostly. So if you post
a question or an answer,
people can upvote it or
downvote it to say, yes,
this was helpful or well-worded
question or whatever, or downvote
it to say, yeah, this
question is really poorly worded
or your answer is just
plain wrong, or you copied
it from somewhere else without
attribution or any negative things.
And you get points for
being upvoted. You get a
few points knocked off for
being down voted, and you
get some points. If your
answer is accepted and there's
a cap on how much
you can get every day,
just through people saying, yes,
I like this answer cap
of 200 points. And then
after that, you only get
any other points through either
accepted answers or bounty questions,
which are sort of, I
think this question is really,
really important to me. So
I will sacrifice some of
my reputation to give it
to whoever does the best
answer on this question. And
there's this rep cap that
steals my rep every day.
What do you mean a
rep cap or rep you
meaning that you can only
put in so much effort.
And then at that point,
there's no reason for you
to bother. You can only
get so much through voting.
So the rep cap is
200 a day. So if,
if I get 25 upvotes
in a day that will
only get me 200 rep
the other 50 rep. So
it's 10, 10 points per
outfit for answers. The other
50 rep is wasted as
it were. So you're saying
because of your standing and
your pervasiveness, you're all over
the place. People are bumping
into you all the time,
uploading stuff that you're doing.
And that's all just rounding
errors that are overflowing. Yeah.
So every so often someone
will answer and it's a
daily thing. It goes for
a UTC day. So you
can get 200, three votes.
You can more for accepted
answers. So amongst, I don't
know how you even put
it amongst the top answers.
If there is any competition
it's for accepted answers because
votes are cheap as it
were. So I can't remember
the last time I didn't
get the 10 or the
20 votes in a day
that takes you to the
rep cap, but it was
a long time ago. And
usually mostly through having a
long tail. And this is
where, you know, just showing
up, comes up again. I
will get five votes a
day for answers that are
over a year old, over
two years old. And so
obviously that ends up being
something that carries you through
that. If I didn't show
up for a whole week,
I may or may not
hit the rap cap every
day. I wouldn't be surprised
for, for a few days,
at least I'm sure I
would. And after that, you
know, without any even fairly
recent answers, it would start
to start to go. And
this isn't just to clarify,
the rep is all, we've
talked about pretty much on
stack overflow, but it's not
the be all and end
all. And I think people
sometimes make the mistake of
thinking that's all that people
are interested in. And I
would far rather give an
answer that is going to
be useful and not give
me any points at all,
but is useful to someone
then do something else, research,
something that is only useful
to one person, but gets
a big bounty or whatever.
I'd rather just be useful
to lots of people. So
that's really interesting. So as
you're describing this point system
and rep and the way
that you've, let's say game
to the negative way, but
the way you are conscious
and aware of the rules
of the game. Yep. And
this idea that if you
don't show up, you're still
gonna get some residual stuff
because of the goodness that
you have kind of left
out there in the world.
I'm translating this into my
head, into the game that
I play, which is blogging.
Right. So you'll still get
some hits.  April will
be 10 years. Wow. Yeah.
I have to do something
for the tenure. I can't
even think what I was
doing 10 years ago. Yeah.
So yeah. It'll be, it'll
be 10 years. I think
it's yeah. 10 years, which
seems like a long time,
but at the same time,
every once in a while,
I just wake up and
freak out. Cause we're in
2012. Right. Where's my Jetpack.
So how many posts is
that? Oh man. It's couple
thousand three, 4,000 maybe. Wow.
Yeah. I don't know. It's
a lot. What does that,
so 3,360, 3,650 days. It's
gotta be upwards of 2000,
2,500, maybe. So to really
freak yourself out sometime you
should get a script to
grab just all the texts
from it and work out
how many books. Oh. Don't
even do that to me.
How many thousand pages? Yeah,
probably a lot. Probably a
lot. I know for a
while there, my posts per
month was in the thirties,
but it's lowered now. Yeah.
30 good solid posts a
month are going almost like
60 pages of texts every
month. But I lowered it
now it's more like 15,
20, right. I really am
focused on quality right now.
I don't, I looked, I
looked back some of my
older stuff and I'm sure
you do the same thing.
What drivel, no one should
ever visit this blog. This
is garbage. I want to
go back and like, what
was I writing this throwaway
post? It's like four paragraphs
and some evocative clip art
is just awful, but it's
the top Google result for
some skier, Google, you know,
someone decides to search for
a good. Yeah. And then
they find my blog and
like, yeah. Awesome. Yeah. But
if you can, if you
can pump out 15 posts
a month and that's focusing
on quality, that's amazing. So
the only time that I've
ever blogged that much was
just over a year ago,
I was doing a series
called EDU link where I
rewrote linked to objects from
scratch just for the sake
of it. Yeah, really? Just,
This is the part where
I feel like a phony
now means you're seriously used
to hear what you just
said. Okay. I say just,
just for the sake of
it, to prove a point
that you don't have to
be smart to writing projects
that actually it's the design.
You have to be really
smart to design link. Very,
very smart, but the actual
implementation, how many lines do
you think it would take
to implement where or select
it's about three lines. I
see. It's really smart because
we're, we're standing on the
shoulders of giants and kind
of doing little fingers behind
them, behind their heads because
the compiler's doing a load
of stuff for you. The
language is designed right for
you. And it's really easy.
So I did all of
the standard linked toward objects
operators and found in everything
that I did. There was
something interesting that I hadn't
even thought of before. I'd
sort of taken it on
thinking, okay, the first few
posts will be interesting and
I will eat out the
general patterns and then the
rest will be, yep. This
needs to do X. And
here's the code and we're
done. No, that really speaks
to the value of, I
guess the kids call it
code katas, but it's C
a code kata. K T
a. The idea is that
you, you go through this
motion, that intellectually seems simple,
but when you do it,
you realize that there's a
lot to it. It's just
like in any kind of
a martial art, a simple
movements or karate kid turned
into being complex. You know,
he thinks he's going wax
on wax off and discovers
that he's been describing on
hydrating, how to block things.
The same thing applies in
reimplementing common patterns. One of
the most fun things that
I ever did in college
was an operating systems class.
And I thought I was
going to go and dig
into like mimics or Lennox
or whatever. And the guy
shows up with it one
eight and a half by
11 sheet of paper or
an  right for the
English people amongst us. And
he says, here's this assembly
language that I invented. Here's
an example program. And here's
the expected output. I want
you to go and create
a 32 bit machine with
this much memory. And if
you just started describing this
theoretical machine and I'm going
to give you this, this
thing, this text file, and
I want you to execute
it, go write an operating
system. No, he didn't literally
mean like at the bios
level. So he wanted you
to implement a virtualized operating
system. And that was it.
That one sheet of paper
was 12 weeks of class.
Yeah. And I didn't see
sharp. Oh cool. And it
was awesome. I have to,
I still, it was still
on my blog and I
did once I figured it
out and I had a,
I did a virtual memory
swapper. And just to be
silly, I actually swapped out
each bite as an XML
file as single bite. So
it was like open bracket,
bite, close bracket. And then
the bite, just to
that was the storage format
for virtual memory. Swapping was
totally ridiculous just to see
if you could write. Yeah.
And, but I learned more
about like paging and fragment.
I had to make like
a visualizer when I, my,
my heap got fragmented and
keeping track of mapping pointers
and stuff if I had,
but I knew all that
stuff intellectually, but if I
hadn't turned the crank and
actually done it, Absolutely. And
I think that's what a
lot of people have found
about writing as well. So
I've written a book about
C-sharp. I remember when Joe Duffy
was writing concurrent programming on
windows, he blogged and said
exactly the same thing that
I'd been saying. I had
heard other people saying it's
amazing how much you find
you don't know when you
try to explain something to
someone else. So I'm sure,
you know, Joe, he knows
so much about concurrency on
windows, just mind blown. Let's
see the is the same
way. Yeah. And yet When
they try to write it
down and pinpoint stuff, you
can, you find the gaps,
you find stuff that you
didn't know, you didn't know.
And so linked to objects
was the same. So I
took things and virtually every
operator, there was some question
on, is it valid to
optimize a certain thing or
not? And you could argue
it both ways. And maybe
I'd find that linked to
objects did optimize something. And
I would have unit tests
to prove that it was
optimized in a particular way,
which, you know, given the
optimization is meant to not
have side effects as it
were. It's quite tricky to
prove an optimization and prove
that some things weren't optimized
and try to work out
why found a bug in
linked objects at the same
time. So it was, it's
incredible fun, much more so
than I expected. And during
that time, over the Christmas
holidays, I was pumping out
a couple of posts a
day that were very formulaic
in terms of here's the
operator, here's the signature that
we're going to do. Here's
what it needs to achieve.
Cause I wanted it to
end up being a sort
of reference work as well.
Here are the tests we're
going to write and here's
the implementation or the interesting
bits of the implementation. And
I was able to do
a couple of those a
day, but it kind of
bumped me out as well.
It was loads of fun,
but I can't even imagine
being able to write one
post every other day for
a sustained and keep the
quality up. Some days you
just kind of wake up
there's this, this, this old
American cartoon of, you know,
do you know like Dunkin
donuts? Okay. So this is
our great American will be
brought to the, to the
culture is Dunkin donuts, right?
Sorry, Dunkin donuts, Dunkin donuts.
Oh, it's a duck Duncan.
That's a whole different, no,
there's no ducks in this
one. So there's this, there's
this commercial rather than a
cartoon, but a commercial where
in the eighties where there's
this, this man, he looks
like Mario, he's got the
big mustache. And he, he
gets out know like the
commercial starts and it's four
in the morning and the
alarm goes off and he
opens his eyes and he
goes time to make the
donuts. And the idea is
that, you know, he's up
at four in the morning
making the donuts so that
you get up at six
in the morning and the
donuts are ready and that's
this whole thing. He's just
as pathetic, sad sack, but
he's obligated to make the
donuts. But you got to
think of him as this
kind of hero because Hey
man, he's making the donuts
every day for us. Right.
So sometimes you have the
sense of like, you know,
time to blog the.net, whatever,
you know, you're the, you
know, and then that's not
fun. Yeah. But then I'll
read other people's blog posts
and I'll see the font
I'll read the fun that
they're having. And I'll start
to get kind of outside
my comfort zone. Right. And
actually Rob Connery has been
one of those guys where
he's kind of brought some
of the fun into blogging.
He's a little more sassy
and a little bit more
throw a dart at the
elephant than I typically am.
But some of my best
posts for the last six
months have been directly as
a result of being just
a little bit more declarative
and expressing a stronger opinion
about stuff and, you know,
poking Hawaiian that wouldn't necessarily
do. And that makes me
feel less like it's a
slog, right? Yeah. You know,
cause nobody wants to just
crank out the same kind
of nonsense. It's gotta be
fresh. Yeah. And it's gotta
be, I think you really
have to enjoy it yourself
because other people are gonna
see that. You're not exactly.
Exactly. Yeah. I think that's
one thing when people say
that they've enjoyed a session
that I've given us a
conference or whatever. And in
fact, I'm also a Methodist
local preacher bucket back in
the UK. I I'm longing
for someone who's been to
a tech conference to come
to a church that I'm
preaching at one day or
vice versa and sort of
comment on the similarities or
differences. Because I think I,
in some ways preach in
the same way that I
give tech talks, particularly around
I'm enthusiastic. If I can't
find something that I'm absolutely
passionate about, then it's really
difficult. And in fact, I
found that difficult just before
Christmas. So I was preaching
on the last Sunday before
Christmas. And my sermon was
on advent for the tired
Christian, because I was exhausted
at the time. And I
felt it was the one
thing I could actually speak
about honestly. And with some
passion was I'm exhausted at
the moment, but yeah, I
think being passionate about anything
is infectious and it's harder
to do that on a
blog. I think it takes
a gift to do it
on a blog. I find
it easier to do in
person. Well, you know, we're
here at code mash at
the code mash conference. You
can check it out. Code
match.org. We're in Ohio. And
I was walking in the
hallways actually just a few
minutes before I met you.
And this young man came
up and said, this is
I'm an, I'm an adjunct
professor pitched spare time kind
of professor on the side
at the local college. Do
you have any tips? He's
asking me this, do you
have any tips on speaking
to young people or college
students? And I said, encouraged
them to be enthusiastic or
to leave, right? Because I've
just, if they're going to
come in and sleep or
they just need the need,
the credit kick them out.
Right. Because in high school,
you, and in these, in
America, the high school teacher
is graded on how well
the teachers do and how
do I to be on
how well the children do
in high school that teachers
are graded on how well
the children do. So a
child fails. It is perceived
as a failure on the
part of the teacher in
college. Man, they'll fail you
just for fun. You know,
I get the paid no
matter whether y'all get F's
or other, you all get
A's. So if you said,
if you don't want to
be passionate, if you don't
want to be excited, if
you're not excited about software,
excited about computers, if you're
not at home taking apart
your clock radio and disassembling
the toaster and making it
wifi enabled, Find something that
will do Just get out
of here. Cause why not
be excited? I have to
confess. So I read maths
at university, but there were
some topics that were less
interesting than others. And I
think I missed most of
my geometry of surfaces lectures
in order to go to
the classics faculty and study.
I was in my third
year and I went to
the first year philosophy lectures.
Cause they were just more
fun. I think I was
probably the only one there
who was having a load
of fun because it was
something I didn't need to
do. It was, I was
just there for fun. And
it, it busts me to
see all these people going,
Oh, I should also be
it's philosophy. It's great. I
was able to bring some
maths to that and ask
sort of bizarre questions that
would only come from a
math mode talking about philosophy,
but it, it was great.
And I, I don't regret
skipping those geometry of surfaces
lectures at all. I'm sure
they were great for what
they were, but it wasn't
my cup of tea. Well,
that's the thing that I
want to figure out how
to give that to my
kids because I keep coming
in contact with young people
that are just dispassionate, right?
Passive, passive, just, just life
is happening to them. Yeah.
I mean, my message in
everything is get out there
and here are the tools
and do something you are
powerful, right? That's my message.
Whether I'm teaching college students,
high school students volunteering, or
whether I'm talking to adults
at code mash, you are
powerful. You know, your crown
has been paid for, put
it on. And when people
aren't excited about that, I
wonder were you born passive
and dispassionate? What can you
go find something you can
be excited about? So excited
that you're afraid you might
be a phony, Right? Yeah.
Because there is something that
when you're passionate, you can
feel, you can usually see
that there is more, there's
always more, you can see
there's something else coming up,
something else coming up, which
means, Hey, I have to
suck at this. If, if
I'm so far behind the
curve, even if that's actually
the bleeding edge of the
curve. Exactly. But because of
the passion, the passion takes
you to Excel and feel
that you're not excelling at
the same time. I think
one can drive the other
so long as it stays
healthy. Yeah. Someone was teasing
me about coming. I skipped
some parties last night and
I came back and I
worked on my talk and
like, what are you doing?
I said, you're Scott Hanselman.
And like, you have no
I'm in a complete panic.
You know, this talk is
going to suck. If I
don't go on practice. And
I was up till three
in the morning, Oh man.
And this time zone, I
was up till three in
the morning practicing because I
didn't want it to suck.
Right. And I've given talks
for 20 years, but each
one of them, everyone knows
my process. Abject panic and
terror is a great way
to become really creative. Yeah.
Well, so after my talk
with bill this morning, we
had a chap come up
to us, come up to
me and say, it would
really help me. If you
would tell me that you
had to put work into
that because otherwise he would
feel a failure that, that,
Yeah, he would be a
funny, because John just shows
up, Well, he got this
idea that probably it was
true that people put in
a lot of effort, but
if it wasn't, then he
might as well go home
because he had to work
really hard to do anything.
And that's fine. That's absolutely
fine. And if you are,
I gave you as an
example that you are consummate
speaker. And I knew that
the talk would have gone
brilliantly and that it wouldn't
have looked like there was
effort involved at all because
that's how good you are
at doing it. But that
is because you've put in
all the effort beforehand I'm
bill and I practiced, I'm
sure a lot less than
you did. I heard you've
been doing this thing for
weeks and weeks though. I
talked to Diane and she
said, you guys been practicing
remotely, Some slides and a
bit of code and stuff,
but we didn't rehearse anything.
We didn't rehearse the switchovers.
And who was going to
do, we had an idea
of who would do which
bit. It'd be interesting to
look at the notes afterwards
and see how accurately that
turned out. But no, it
wasn't, you, we didn't go
somewhere and record an example
and then pick it apart
and all the things, there's
a brilliant book. Confessions of
a public speaker. Oh, is
that Scott Burkin? Yes. Oh,
Scott Burke and everything. He writes
this great by everything. That's
got Birkin rights And it's
lovely. And I promised myself,
after reading this book, I
will start rehearsing. When I
do talks, I will start
rehearsing to a camera. I
will watch it. And to
this day I still haven't.
I feel completely, It's a
really amazing thing if you
do. And I honestly, I
three in the morning, three
30, when I went to
sleep, I closed my eyes
and I started kind of
thinking to myself in a
focused, like, as if I
were talking to myself, I
don't talk to myself. Right.
I was thinking to myself,
hi, I'm Scott Hanselman. I
worked at Microsoft. I was
literally, as I was going
to sleep, I was saying
it, I was, I could
feel the sub vocalization. I
could feel the, my tongue
moving in my mouth. I
was sure. And I converse
like that, but I've never
rehearsed and done a web
com. Oh you should. Yeah,
I know I should. But
you're gonna realize what you
do with your hands and
what you do. And this
is to do with being
phony. Cause I hate watching
myself and I hate listening
to myself and I know
that it would make me
better and I, I can't
quite face it yet. So
the fact that you said
it as well as the
other Scott, maybe it's a
Scott thing, but yeah, I
should definitely do it. It
will take you to the
next level and honestly, let
someone else rip you apart.
Right. But let them watch
you or if you part,
but the great part is
that if you've ever done
theater, yes. It's just theater.
Right? I mean, you, you
it's blocking, make sure you're
facing the audience, you know,
annunciate throw your voice against
the back of the room.
You know, all that stuff.
That's just all classic kind
of theater training type stuff.
Oh yeah. Yeah. Same things
apply. Don't don't mean, and
I make the mistakes. Like
I just did this video,
this speaker, how to speak
video with, with Rob Connery.
And in the video I
explained, you know, don't touch
your face, keep your hands
out of your pocket. A
couple of people emailed me
after they watched the video
and they're like, but you
touched your face. Like within
five minutes of here. See,
you know what I mean?
I'm always going to have
to work on that. I
don't like I'm aware of
certain phrases that I'll use
just over and over again.
And sometimes I'm aware of
it. I'm sure there are
other phrases that I'm not
aware on reusing the whole
time, but yeah, one day
I just need to work
out a time that I
can afford that amount of
self-loathing and get back on,
back on the horse. I
love that we have equal
amounts of self-loading because it
drives us forward. Thank you
so much, John skeet for
like you it's beautiful. Oh,
this has been a very
special episode of Hanselminutes I
think. And we'll see you
again next week.